---
title: "(Q1-IF 5.988) The Use of Antibiotics for Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia in the MIMIC-IV Database"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-06-03-VAP
excerpt: ''
date: 2022-06-03
venue: 'Frontiers in Pharmacology'
---
[Download paper (pdf) here](http://huangtao36.github.io/files/VAP.pdf)

## Abstract

**Purpose** By analyzing the clinical characteristics, etiological characteristics and commonly used antibiotics of patients with ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) in intensive care units (ICUs) in the intensive care database. This study aims to provide guidance information for the clinical rational use of drugs for patients with VAP.

**Method.** Patients with VAP information were collected from the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care IV (MIMIC-IV) database, including their sociodemographic characteristics, vital signs, laboratory measurements, complications, microbiology, and antibiotic use. After data processing, the characteristics of the medications used by patients with VAP in ICUs were described using statistical graphs and tables, and experiences were summarized and the reasons were analyzed. 

**Results.** This study included 2,068 patients with VAP. Forty-eight patient characteristics, including demographic indicators, vital signs, biochemical indicators, scores, and comorbidities, were compared between the survival and death groups of VAP patients. Cephalosporins and vancomycin were the most commonly used. Among them, fourth-generation cephalosporin (ForGC) combined with vancomycin was used the most, by 540 patients. First-generati49n cephalosporin (FirGC) combined with vancomycin was associated with the highest survival rate (86.7%). More than 55% of patients were infected with Gram-negative bacteria. However, patients with VAP had fewer resistant strains (<25%). FirGC or ForGC combined with vancomycin had many inflammation-related features that differed significantly from those in patients who did not receive medication.

**Conclusion.** Understanding antibiotic use, pathogenic bacteria compositions, and the drug resistance rates of patients with VAP can help prevent the occurrence of diseases, contain infections as soon as possible, and promote the recovery of patients.



## Citation: 

Yang R, Huang T, Shen L, Feng A, Li L, Li S, Huang L, He N, Huang W, Liu H, Lyu J. The Use of Antibiotics for Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia in the MIMIC-IV Database. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Jun 13 [10.3389/fphar.2022.869499](https://doi.org/10.3389/fphar.2022.869499)

