---
title: "(Q2-IF 4.638) Deep-learning model for predicting the survival of rectal adenocarcinoma patients based on a surveillance, epidemiology, and end results analysis"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-02-25-DLRA
excerpt: ''
date: 2022-02-25
venue: 'BMC Cancer'
---
[Download paper (pdf) here](http://huangtao36.github.io/files/DLRA.pdf)

## Abstract

**Background** We collected information on patients with rectal adenocarcinoma in the United States from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and EndResults (SEER) database. We used this information to establish a model that combined deep learning with a multilayer neural network (the DeepSurv model) for predicting the survival rate of patients with rectal adenocarcinoma. 

**Method.** We collected patients with rectal adenocarcinoma in the United States and older than 20 yearswho had been added to the SEER database from 2004 to 2015. We divided these patients into training and test cohortsat a ratio of 7:3. The training cohort was used to develop a seven-layer neural network based on the analysis method established by Katzman and colleagues to construct a DeepSurv prediction model. We then used the C-index and calibration plots to evaluate the prediction performance of the DeepSurv model. 

**Results.** The 49,275 patients with rectal adenocarcinoma included in the study were randomly divided into the training cohort (70%, n = 34,492) and the test cohort (30%, n = 14,783). There were no statistically significant differences in clinical characteristics between the two cohorts (p > 0.05). We applied Cox proportional-hazards regression to the data in the training cohort, which showed that age, sex, marital status, tumor grade, surgery status, and chemotherapy status were significant factors influencing survival (p < 0.05). Using the training cohort to construct the DeepSurv model resulted in a C-index of the model of 0.824, while using the test cohort to verify the DeepSurv model yielded a C-index of 0.821. Thesevalues show that the prediction effect of the DeepSurv model for the test-cohort patients was highly consistent with the prediction resultsfor the training-cohort patients. 

**Conclusion.** The DeepSurv prediction model of the seven-layer neural network that we have established can accurately predict the survival rateand time of rectal adenocarcinoma patients.



## Citation: 

Yu H, Huang T, Feng B, Lyu J. Deep-learning model for predicting the survival of rectal adenocarcinoma patients based on a surveillance, epidemiology, and end results analysis. BMC Cancer. 2022 Feb 25. [10.1186/s12885-022-09217-9](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12885-022-09217-9)

